!cmdlist: Any user on Any difficulty. Lists every other command.

!difficulty <1,2,3,4>: Streamer and Moderator only. Changes what commands are allow via hard-coded presets between a value of 1 through 4. 1 is easy and 4 is extreme.

!chiplist: Any user on Any difficulty. Pulls up a link to all of the in-game Battle Chips, the cards you attack with.

!stylelist: Any user on Any difficulty. Pulls up a link to all of the in-game Style Changes, forms that Mega Man can take after a certain point in the game that we circumvent entirely.

!fightlist: Any user on Extreme difficulty only. Pulls up a link to all of the unique Virus and Navi Encounters, whether or not they're random.

!slotin <chipID or chipName>: Any user on Any difficulty. If the player is in Combat, this "Slots-In" a Battle Chip, AKA gives them an attack of your choice, as long as they don't have 5 already queued up.

!zennyplz: Any user on Normal difficulty or higher. Randomly adds or removes Zenny, the main in-game currency, based on values in a list.

!fragsplz: Any user on Hard difficulty or higher. Randomly adds or removes Bug Frags, a rare in-game currency, based on values in a list.

!maxhealthplz: Any user on Hard difficulty or higher. Randomly adds or removes Max HP from Mega Man. This can lead to an almost permanent Max HP of 0.

!healthplz: Any user on Hard difficulty or higher. Randomly adds or removes HP from Mega Man. Unlike Max HP, this counts as healing or immediate damage.

!stylechange <styleID or styleName>: Any user on Any difficulty. Changes Mega Man's current Style, or form. Unlike the "Stored" style Change, this changes your "Active" style, and can be set to anything at any time, even at the start of a new game.

!fightme <fightID>: Any user on Extreme difficulty only. Forces an encounter with this ID. If you enter a fixed encounter, that encounter is overwritten with the forced one.

!scramble: Any user on Normal difficulty only. Randomizes your 2 editable Folders. If you only have 1, it still shuffles the nonexistant one full of nothing.

!setstage <stageID or stageName>: Any user on Hard difficulty or higher. Sets the Battlefield Panels to a specific type of Panel.

!roulettehand: Any user on Extreme difficulty only. Randomizes whatever you have slotted in for a set period of time EVERY FRAME.

!roulettestage: Any user on Extreme difficulty only. Randomizes the Battlefield Panels every 10 frames disregarding any and all order.

!chipplz: Any user on Any difficulty. Gives the player a Battle Chip with a random code out of the available codes for that Battle Chip. They can find the chip in their Backpack.