[INTRO]
This randomizer can be used for either version of Mega Man Battle Network 3. Credit goes to the Samfin, Prof.9, and Rockman.exe, as well as credit from myself for making quite a few of the following files and allowing tweaking of their settings.

[Usage Instructions]
1) Obtain a clean rom of MMBN3 Blue or MMBN3 White.

--OPTIONAL: Patch the rom with an IPS patcher, using one of the Open Mode patches. This will allow
access to most of the game's areas from the get-go.

2) Run "MMBN3 Randomizer.exe".

3) Hit the "Open" button and select your rom file. This will fill the input file path textbox. You may optionally type out the path manually.

4) Give a value to every setting you want to change.

5) Click the "Randomize!" button.

6) Once the program says it's "Done!", feel free to close it. You should now see a folder named "output" in the same directory as the randomizer. This has your randomized rom in it.

7) Open your randomized rom with an emulator or flash cart of your choice.

[Randomizer Toggles]
The program allows for many things to be randomized. Here are the list of toggleable randomizer functions.

Starting/Extra Folder Randomization
Shop/Number Trader Randomization
Green Mystery Data Randomization
Battle Chip Data Randomization
Blue/Purple Mystery Data Randomization
Navi/Virus/Battle Prize Randomization
NPC Chip Trade Requirement Randomization

[Randomizer Modifiers]
The program has a lot of options to further change each run of the game. Here's a short description of each option and what they do.

"Randomize NCP Shapes" can be 0 or 1. Setting this to 1 randomizes Navi Customizer Program Shapes. Some NCPs are ignored, but both the Compressed and Uncompressed shapes are affected. Not recommended for beginners.

"Enable Detailed Output Log" can be 0 or 1. Setting this to 1 generates a HUGE output log and it takes a while. Recommended for testing or casual play.

"Ignore HP/Damage Limiters" can be 0 or 1. Setting this to 1 allows Chip Damage Multiplier and Enemy HP Multiplier upper limits to go above their listed maximum and allows Enemy HP to exceed 4,000.

"Battlefield Stages" can be set to 0-2.
	0) Default Battle Stages. Randomized Stages are disabled.
	1) Randomized Stage Data is enabled. Not Recommended for beginners.
	2) Randomized Stage Data and IDs are enabled. Not Recommended for beginners.

"Hell Mode" can be 0-3.
	0) Hell Mode is disabled.
	1) "Hell" disables the ability to increase your Maximum HP with HP Memories.
	2) "Insane" disables HP Memories completely, adding the disabling of Run Rate increases and gaining of Current HP.
	3) "Death Wish" Sets your Maximum HP to 5 on top of everything else. Good luck with this one.

"Chip Damage Multiplier" can be between 0.25 to 3.0 and multiplies Battle Chip and Program Advance Damage.

"Chip Damage Variance" can be between 0.0 to 0.9 and adds to or subtracts from Battle Chip and Program Advance Damage by the listed percentage.

"Enemy HP Multiplier" can be between 0.25 to 3.0 and multiplies Virus and Navi HP.

"Enemy HP Variance" can be between 0.0 to 0.9 and adds to or subtracts from Virus and Navi HP by the listed percentage.

NOTE: Multiplier is applied first, then Variance.

"Fill Shops" can be 0 or 1, check the box/set to 1 to fill every shop's contents with new Battle Chips. Recommended.

"Free Chips in Shops" can be 0 or 1, check the box/set to 1 to enable.

"Randomize Navis" can be 0 or 1, check the box/set to 1 to enable.

"Randomize Chip Names" can be 0 or 1, check the box/set to 1 to enable.

"Randomize Virus Names" can be 0 or 1, check the box/set to 1 to enable.

"Normal Tutorial" can be 0 or 1, check the box/set to 1 to prevent the tutorial enemies from being randomized.

"Randomize Battle Objects" can be 0 or 1, check the box/set to 1 to enable.

"Chip Code Roullete Mode" is for the Chip Codes.
	0) No Randomization.
	1) All * Codes.
	2) Simplified Codes. All Chips will have A, B, C, D, E, or *.
	3) Random Codes. PAs should still be useable.

"Randomize Elements Mode" can randomize the Elements with the following options:
	0) No Randomization.
	1) Randomize Virus/Navi elements.
	2) Randomize Chip elements.
	3) Randomize Virus/Navi/Chip elements.

"Set Virus Level Mode" can be 0-7, with 0 being the default level of difficulty. Setting it above 0 forces all fights to be a specific Virus level.
	0) Omega Mode is disabled. Viruses will not be increased in difficulty.
	1) Alpha+. Most Viruses and Navis are scaled by 1 step.
	2) Beta+. Most Viruses and Navis are scaled by 2 steps.
	3) Omega. Almost Everything is as hard as possible. Not Recommended.
	4) Chaos Mode. Viruses will not increase in difficulty, but they can potentially be almost any Virus in the game.
	5) Chaos Alpha+.
	6) Chaos Beta+.
	7) Chaos Omega. Not recommended.

"Set Folder Lock Mode" can be 0-4, and each setting had different rules. When enabled, you can't edit your folders.
	0) Disable Folder Lock Mode and randomize all folders.
	1) "Preset Single", all folders in the game share the exact same chips and these are taken from the "folders_custom.txt".
	2) "Preset Multi", similar to the above but instead of one folder, multiple folders are chosen.
	3) "Random Single", where the folder is randomly generated like normal but each folder is the same.
	4) "Random Multi", where the folders are randomly generated like normal.
	5) "Unlocked", all folders are permanently unlocked and are randomly generated like normal. This includes Extra Folders. Be careful when you change them out!
	6) "Unlocked Unlimited", similar to the above but all folders are no longer restricted to how many Mega Chips or Giga Chips they can hold.

"Chip Price Variance" can be between 0.0 to 0.9 and adds to or subtracts from the Battle Chip prices in Shops by the listed percentage.

"Regular Memory Values" can be 0-99. To randomize RegMem Values, use a number between the range of 1 to 99.

"Seed" can be anything you want, or nothing for the current date and time as a string.

"Daily Run?", if enabled, will ignore all of your settings and generate its own depending on what day it is.

[*_attackpower.txt]
These files are for Battle chips (chip_attackpower.txt) and Program Advances (pa_attackpower.txt).
Some values are forced to be zero or negative, while others can be changed from their defaults.
MAKE A BACKUP BEFORE ALTERING.

[navi_data.txt]
Holds Navi offsets, names, and HP values.
DO NOT EDIT THE OFFSETS OR NAMES. HP is okay though.

[virus_data.txt]
Holds Virus' HP, Attack Power, and Name, in that order.
DO NOT EDIT THE NAMES. HP is okay though. Attack Power is unused due to being obscured in each Virus' AI.

[chip_data.txt, pa_data.txt, chip_names.txt, pa_names.txt]
The *_data.txt files might change the rank of chips and P.A.s, though I'm unsure if that has an effect in-game.
DO NOT EDIT THE NAME FILES.

[Seed Info]
If you see this file, you can share the info inside with others to generate similar randomized ROMs.
If you're using modifiers, they'll also be included for people to copy down for their run.
Note that if you export detailed seed info that this is also the game's spoiler log!
Also note that if you changed any text files that there WILL be differences between similar seeds and settings!

[chip_randomnames.txt]
Stores randomly chooseable chip names! Have fun making your own. Also, have at least 1 name for 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8 letter Chip Names. Otherwise you'll run into an infinite loop when using randomized names.

If you want to use special characters, such as Sigma or Omega, I've included a list of all applicable symbols and alphanumeric characters in a single text file.

[enemy_randomnames.txt]
Stores randomly chooseable Virus and Navi names! Have fun making your own. Please keep at least 1 name for 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 letter Enemy Names.

[ncp_patterns.txt]
The randomizer reads this file to change the NaviCust Program Shapes. I made a program to easily add more Program Shapes to this list.

Each entry in this list is 2 patterns of 5x5 grids as one line, with every 5 0s and 1s counting as a single row. Each pattern is 25 tiles on the board, and each pattern has a "Compressed" pattern for the other 25 tiles. Be sure to include both.

[stages.txt]
The randomizer reads this file to change the Battle Stage Panels.

Each line has a total of 24 numbers ranging from 0 to 10, but only 18 of the available numbers are used for the panels themselves. The other 6 "0"s are used to seperate the panels by row. This is how it works:

0 ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? 0 0 ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? 0 ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? ?? 0

?? Can be any number from 0 to 10. Anything else and it'll glitch the panel out. I also don't recommend setting the panels to 1. Panel Types are listed below:

0: Empty Panel
1: Cracked Open Panel
2: Normal Panel
3: Cracked Closed Panel
4: Poison Panel
5: Metal Panel
6: Grass Panel
7: Ice Panel
8: Lava Panel
9: Holy Panel
10: Sand Panel

Please use the integer values provided and not hexidecimal, as that's how it's set up to be used inside of the randomizer itself.

[folders_custom.txt]
The randomizer reads this file and force-sets all Folders to one of the specific folder setups in this file. This is mainly used for Specific Folder runs.

Each line has a total of 30 Chips and Codes, with the Chips seperating each other by commas and the Codes are seperated from the Chips by spaces. Both values are integers (not the hexidecimal equivalent), and take up that particular slot in the Folder.

Codes go from 0 to 26, while Chips go from 1 to 312. I recommend following standard in-game Folder rules, and if you need a refresher, they're as followed:
1) Only up to 4 of the same Standard Chip.
2) Only 1 of the same Mega and Giga Chip.
3) Only up to 4 Mega Chips by default.
4) Only up to 1 Giga Chip by default.
5) Some Gigas are version-exclusive and should not be used at all as there's no failsafe for them.
